# aidataanalytics-finance-project

  We decided to develop a financial advice model for college students. It takes in the following factors: age, credit score, gender, year in school, major, monthly income, financial aid, tuition, cost of living, current savings and debt, and preferred payment method. It outputs a financial stability score between 0 and 100, a monthly savings recommendation, and other financial advice.

	The first step in our process was getting familiar with many Python libraries used in ML. This included learning numpy, pandas, scikit, matplotlib, and pytorch. All of us looked through it, to ensure we all had the same base understanding getting started with our project. We did not end up using some of them in our project, such as matplotlib, but it was useful in familiarizing ourselves with the general ecosystem of ML libraries.

	Next, we started research on kinds of finance and college students. We read about factors that contribute to them potentially losing money. We picked some factors we would like to input into our model; those factors included: credit score, age, income, tuition (and any financial aid), housing expenses, food expenses, transportation costs, supplies expenses, entertainment and technology costs, cost of living, gender, and their college major. A dataset that met all these needs was “Student spending habits dataset” from Kaggle (https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/sumanthnimmagadda/student-spending-dataset/data). It provided 1000 rows of fictional student data, but we decided to proceed with it because it appeared to be fairly representative of real students’ spending habits; it is hard to find a large dataset with all the spending habits because of concerns regarding personally identifiable information.

	With our dataset ready, we started coding our model. To ensure we chose an accurate and robust model, we worked with a variety of models before finally deciding on our K-Means Cluster Random Forest Model. We attempted, but did not finish, coding a Data Aggregation (DAgger) Model and an Extreme Gradient Boost (XGBoost) Model; a DAgger model is not a good fit for a finance project, because it cannot determine cause behind an action, and our chosen dataset was not varied enough to generate proper labels using an XGBoost model. We coded a basic Linear Regression model as a starting point, and also coded a basic K-Means Clustering Model. Both of these were not too robust, though. So, we finally decided upon a K-Means Cluster Random Forest Model. It integrates both unsupervised learning (K-Means Clustering) and supervised learning (Random Forest) to accurately discover and assign the labels. It first takes input from factors like age, gender, income, expenses, etc., and then extracts important features. Then, it trains the model and outputs a financial risk prediction score between 0 and 100. Here is the link to our GitHub with all our code: https://github.com/nityashah1811/aidataanalytics-finance-project. 

	With our model chosen, we proceeded to work on how users can actually interact with this model: using a website. Our back-end uses the K-Means Cluster Random Forest Model, and outputs financial advice, a financial stability score from 0 to 100, and monthly savings recommendation. This included using Pandas and Numpy, and Scikit-Learn, for our ML model, and Java for our core back-end programming. Our front-end of the website is mainly coded in HTML, and allows users to use textboxes and drop-down menus to enter their data and receive financial advice back.
	
	Some of our future goals include integrating a different dataset into this model, one that’s more bird’s-eye-view but includes real data, and including Natural Language Processing (NLP) into our website. With NLP, the user can specify which categories they want to prioritize, and can receive more personalized feedback accordingly.
